Readme.md, before:

Readme
======

#### This is the project creation repository of Thelia. If you want to contribute, please take a look at [thelia/thelia](https://github.com/thelia/thelia)

Thelia
------
[![Actions Status: test](https://github.com/thelia/thelia/workflows/test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/thelia/thelia/actions?query=workflow%3A"test") [![License](https://poser.pugx.org/thelia/thelia/license.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/thelia/thelia) [![Scrutinizer Quality Score](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/thelia/thelia/badges/quality-score.png?s=61e3e04a69bffd71c29b08e5392080317a546716)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/thelia/thelia/)

[Thelia](http://thelia.net/) is an open source tool for creating e-business websites and managing online content. This software is published under LGPL.

This is the new major version of Thelia.

You can download this version and have a try or take a look at the source code (or anything you wish, respecting LGPL).  See http://thelia.net/ web site for more information.

A repository containing all thelia modules is available at this address : https://github.com/thelia-modules


Compatibility
------------

|         |   Thelia 2.3    |      Thelia 2.4 |  Thelia 2.5 |  Thelia 2.6 |
|---------|:---------------:|----------------:|------------:|------------:|
| PHP     | 5.5 5.6 7.0 7.1 | 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 |     8.2 8.3 |     8.2 8.3 |
| MySQL   |     5.5 5.6     |     5.5 5.6 5.7 | 5.6 5.7 8.0 | 5.6 5.7 8.0 |
| Symfony |       2.8       |             2.8 |         6.4 |         6.4 |


Requirements
------------

* PHP
    * Required extensions :
        * PDO_Mysql
        * openssl
        * intl
        * gd
        * curl
        * dom
    * safe_mode off
    * memory_limit at least 128M, preferably 256.
    * post\_max\_size 20M
    * upload\_max\_filesize 2M
    * date.timezone must be defined
* Web Server Apache 2 or Nginx
* MySQL 5 or 8

## Create a Thelia project

``` bash
$ curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer | php
$ php composer.phar create-project thelia/thelia-project path/ 2.6.0 (or 2.5.5)
```

## Install it with your own environment

You can install Thelia using the cli tool and the scripts provided by thelia/setup

``` bash
$ php Thelia thelia:install
```

Consult the page : http://localhost/thelia/web

You can create a virtual host and choose web folder for root directory.


Documentation
-------------

Thelia documentation is available at https://doc.thelia.net


Contribute
----------

See the documentation : http://doc.thelia.net/en/documentation/contribute.html

### Mac OSX

If you use Mac OSX, it still doesn't use php 5.4 as default php version... There are many solutions for you :

* use [phpbrew](https://github.com/c9s/phpbrew)
* use last MAMP version and put the php bin directory in your path:

```bash
export PATH=/Applications/MAMP/bin/php/php5.5.x/bin/:$PATH
```

* configure a complete development environment : http://php-osx.liip.ch/
* use a virtual machine with vagrant and puppet : https://puphpet.com/

### MySQL 5.6

As of MySQL 5.6, default configuration sets the sql_mode value to

```
STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION
```

This 'STRICT_TRANS_TABLES' configuration results in SQL errors when no default value is defined on NOT NULL columns and the value is empty or invalid.

You can edit this default config in ` /etc/my.cnf ` and change the sql_mode to remove the STRICT_TRANS_TABLES part

```
[mysqld]
sql_mode=NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION
```

Assuming your sql_mode is the default one, you can change the value directly on the run by running the following SQL Command

```sql
SET @@GLOBAL.sql_mode='NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION', @@SESSION.sql_mode='NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION'
```

For more information on sql_mode you can consult the [MySQL doc](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/fr/server-sql-mode.html "sql Mode")

## Archive builders
Thelia's archive builder's needs external libraries.
For zip archives, you need PECL zip. See [PHP Doc](http://php.net/manual/en/zip.installation.php)

For tar archives, you need PECL phar. Moreover, you need to deactivate php.ini option "phar.readonly":
```ini
phar.readonly = Off
```

For tar.bz2 archives, you need tar's dependencies and the extension "bzip2". See [PHP Doc](http://php.net/manual/fr/book.bzip2.php)

For tar.gz archives, you need tar's dependencies and the extension "zlib". See [PHP Doc](http://fr2.php.net/manual/fr/book.zlib.php)

Commit message:

Add quick start guide for DDEV setup
Added quick start instructions for setting up a local environment with DDEV and OrbStack.

Readme.md, after:

Readme
======

#### This is the project creation repository of Thelia. If you want to contribute, please take a look at [thelia/thelia](https://github.com/thelia/thelia)

Thelia
------
[![Actions Status: test](https://github.com/thelia/thelia/workflows/test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/thelia/thelia/actions?query=workflow%3A"test") [![License](https://poser.pugx.org/thelia/thelia/license.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/thelia/thelia) [![Scrutinizer Quality Score](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/thelia/thelia/badges/quality-score.png?s=61e3e04a69bffd71c29b08e5392080317a546716)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/thelia/thelia/)

[Thelia](http://thelia.net/) is an open source tool for creating e-business websites and managing online content. This software is published under LGPL.

This is the new major version of Thelia.

You can download this version and have a try or take a look at the source code (or anything you wish, respecting LGPL).  See http://thelia.net/ web site for more information.

A repository containing all thelia modules is available at this address : https://github.com/thelia-modules


Compatibility
------------

|         |   Thelia 2.3    |      Thelia 2.4 |  Thelia 2.5 |  Thelia 2.6 |
|---------|:---------------:|----------------:|------------:|------------:|
| PHP     | 5.5 5.6 7.0 7.1 | 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 |     8.2 8.3 |     8.2 8.3 |
| MySQL   |     5.5 5.6     |     5.5 5.6 5.7 | 5.6 5.7 8.0 | 5.6 5.7 8.0 |
| Symfony |       2.8       |             2.8 |         6.4 |         6.4 |


Requirements
------------

* PHP
    * Required extensions :
        * PDO_Mysql
        * openssl
        * intl
        * gd
        * curl
        * dom
    * safe_mode off
    * memory_limit at least 128M, preferably 256.
    * post\_max\_size 20M
    * upload\_max\_filesize 2M
    * date.timezone must be defined
* Web Server Apache 2 or Nginx
* MySQL 5 or 8

## Create a Thelia project

``` bash
$ curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer | php
$ php composer.phar create-project thelia/thelia-project path/ 2.6.0 (or 2.5.5)
```

## Install it with your own environment

You can install Thelia using the cli tool and the scripts provided by thelia/setup

``` bash
$ php Thelia thelia:install
```

Consult the page : http://localhost/thelia/web

You can create a virtual host and choose web folder for root directory.

## Quick start with DDEV

To quickly set up your local environment, we recommend using [DDEV](https://ddev.com/get-started/).
On macOS, we also suggest using [OrbStack](https://orbstack.dev/) instead of the classic Docker Desktop for noticeably better performance.

Initialize your project with a single command:

```bash
ddev config --project-type=php --docroot=web --php-version=8.3
```

DDEV will automatically generate everything required (vhosts, database, etc.).

You can then manage your environment with the following commands:

```bash
# Start the project
ddev start

# Stop it
ddev stop

# Display environment details
ddev describe

# Open a shell inside the container
ddev ssh
```
Then, just run previous Thelia commands to install your project.

Documentation
-------------

Thelia documentation is available at https://doc.thelia.net


Contribute
----------

See the documentation : http://doc.thelia.net/en/documentation/contribute.html

### Mac OSX

If you use Mac OSX, it still doesn't use php 5.4 as default php version... There are many solutions for you :

* use [phpbrew](https://github.com/c9s/phpbrew)
* use last MAMP version and put the php bin directory in your path:

```bash
export PATH=/Applications/MAMP/bin/php/php5.5.x/bin/:$PATH
```

* configure a complete development environment : http://php-osx.liip.ch/
* use a virtual machine with vagrant and puppet : https://puphpet.com/

### MySQL 5.6

As of MySQL 5.6, default configuration sets the sql_mode value to

```
STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION
```

This 'STRICT_TRANS_TABLES' configuration results in SQL errors when no default value is defined on NOT NULL columns and the value is empty or invalid.

You can edit this default config in ` /etc/my.cnf ` and change the sql_mode to remove the STRICT_TRANS_TABLES part

```
[mysqld]
sql_mode=NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION
```

Assuming your sql_mode is the default one, you can change the value directly on the run by running the following SQL Command

```sql
SET @@GLOBAL.sql_mode='NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION', @@SESSION.sql_mode='NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION'
```

For more information on sql_mode you can consult the [MySQL doc](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/fr/server-sql-mode.html "sql Mode")

## Archive builders
Thelia's archive builder's needs external libraries.
For zip archives, you need PECL zip. See [PHP Doc](http://php.net/manual/en/zip.installation.php)

For tar archives, you need PECL phar. Moreover, you need to deactivate php.ini option "phar.readonly":
```ini
phar.readonly = Off
```

For tar.bz2 archives, you need tar's dependencies and the extension "bzip2". See [PHP Doc](http://php.net/manual/fr/book.bzip2.php)

For tar.gz archives, you need tar's dependencies and the extension "zlib". See [PHP Doc](http://fr2.php.net/manual/fr/book.zlib.php)
